once the volcano stopped erupting and
the lava drained away it left behind a
vast network of empty passages some big
enough to drive a bus through cave
explorers have mapped over six miles of
massive tunnels beneath this single lava
flow but humans weren't the first
creatures to discover this hidden world
as dusk creeps up the flanks of Mount
Suez what a troop of baboons is
gathering for the night
most baboons roost in the treetops to
avoid night prowling leopards or lions
but these baboons are heading downwards
their destination is an underground
chamber known locally as the bubblers
Parliament
as they enter the underworld that were
boomed cross with bats on their way out
filming them here requires an infrared
camera and lights invisible to the
baboon's the Wolves of the balloon
Parliament have been worn glassy smooth
by the hands and feet of generations of
baboons rock climbing in the dark on
polished holes could be considered a
hazardous sport but presumably these
baboons find it less scary than sleeping
outside with the leopards
the baboon's final destination is a
series of small ledges high up on the
cave wool safe beyond the reach of
predators and protected by a roof of
solid rock the cave dormitory stays warm
and dry even at the height of the rainy
season as the last light fades from the
sky the bat Exodus intensifies this is
the world's largest colony of giant
Mastiff bats it's made up entirely of
females who have just given birth their
pups thousands of them can't fly yet and
are completely dependent on their
mothers but the mother bats must leave
their cave to feed packed tightly
together for warmth the deserted pups
are left in a wriggling squeaking crash
you